>> Brian Holt: We are going to open
a third terminal, because we wanna have
an observer to watch all of
the chaos that's about to ensue.
So we're gonna run that Docker
exec- it docker-host bash again, so
we have a third process in here, and
then I'm gonna say, apt-get install htop.
If you're not familiar with htop I love
it, it just allows you to visualize
all the processes, how the RAM is
being used, all that kind of stuff,
it's a nice visual representation of
what's happening, kind of cool, right?
So you can see inside of Docker I
have eight cores that are available.
>> Brian Holt: You can see all
the processes that are running,
who's running them,
all that kind of stuff, cool, right?
Let's say that we're Eve right now,
this is number one, this is the unshared
environment, and we want to pin
one of the CPUs, so let's do that.
>> Brian Holt: I'm actually gonna copy and
paste this because it doesn't really
matter what it does, this is gonna be the
RAM one, okay, yeah, so this one does RAM.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna run this and
watch that consume a ton
of RAM right here.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you can see this
one's just starting to grow right there.
>> Brian Holt: You can see the memory
trending up, all that kind of stuff,
right?
Where is the memory here?
>> Brian Holt: There you go,
you can see that this is also pegged,
the 7th core as well, right?
>> Brian Holt: So, how do we kind
of prevent this from happening?
How do we prevent Eve from just running
commands and just destroying stuff?
Well, let's go ahead and stop this so
that we can start pegging their CPU, so
where's yes?
It's this one.
>> Brian Holt: 8359, 8359, okay, so
here I'm gonna say kill -9,
not that, 8359.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, then you can see
our number 7 return to normal there.
>> Brian Holt: So let's go ahead and
stick some limits on this so
that we can't do this anymore.
So at the moment,
let's go into sandbox/ and
we're gonna cat
/sysfs/cgroup/sandbox/memory.max.
And right now you can see,
it's like, I don't have a max,
they can do whatever they want,
they can take as much as I have, right?
So we're gonna echo, we're just
gonna give it 80 megs right now, so
I'm just gonna copy that
cuz I don't remember.
I think that's what it is in bytes,
I'm gonna echo that
into sandbox memory max and
if I look now, you can see It now
has a very strong upper limit.
Run that again, and
you can see it is gonna peg the CPU again,
because we have not limited the CPU, but
it's gonna be much less affected on
the memory side of things, right?
Because we've now capped that entire
sub-process is limited to 80 megabytes
of RAM, which is pretty cool.
Cool, yeah, you can see there that's
starting to trend up as well,
so what is that?
Yes, 8366 kill -9 8366, okay,
so that's the first one,
that is limiting RAM,
let's limit how much CPU it can use,
right?
Because it's still able to peg a core,
so if I come in here and
I say yes into dev/null, this is
just going to spam yes at dev/null.
Which is dev/null as you may know,
is just a place where you can echo out
anything and
it just kind of goes into the void.
So you can see here I've now
managed to peg this one, so
let's go ahead and kill that and
then we'll try it again,
but in an environment
that I can't do that.
8371, kill-9 8371,
and we're gonna say echo 5000 and
that is 100,000.
>> Brian Holt: Again, I have my notes
here, so you can just get it from there,
and this is gonna go into cpu.max.
>> Brian Holt: I think this is 5,000 of
100,000, so that ends up being 5%, right?
So we're giving it 5% of a CPU.
So you can see here,
right there, it's fine, and
we're gonna say from here now we're
gonna run that again, yes dev/null,
and you can see here that it's
gonna be able to pull about 5%.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty cool, right?
So now Eve is now restricted to
only 5% of the CPU she's not
able to just run stupid commands and
bring people down.
I think I should just be
able to stop that here, no?
Okay, what?
8372 kill-9 8372.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, and
then that killed it.
>> Brian Holt: One more thing,
we are going to run a fork bomb,
which is never a good idea, and
continue at your own risk here.
If you're not familiar with a fork bomb,
it's kind of a fun Linux trick,
let's see if I can find it here.
And it looks like this,
you may have seen this before,
that's what's called a fork bomb.
If you drop this, if you just copied and
pasted this directly into your terminal
right now, don't by the way, please don't.
Or I'm not responsible for what happens,
it's gonna crash your computer likely.
It's just a process that keeps
forking itself and forking itself and
forking itself.
And you end up with this like fractal of
processes that's eventually overwhelms
your system, right?
You can rewrite it as this, because
this colon here is just the name of
the function, it doesn't actually have
anything special, it's just a name, right?
So you're saying fork,
fork to the background, and
then you run fork, a lot of forking.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
So how can we prevent Alice
from just dropping a fork bomb?
Well, we can limit how many
processes she can spawn, so
let's go ahead and run that,
or pids.current, right?
So back here,
we're gonna say cat pids.current,
and you can see one,
I think that's just lets it
run as many as it's wants,
if I'm not mistaken.
>> Brian Holt: No, that's how many it has
at the moment, and then if I put max,
it should just say max.
Yeah, it basically says I'm not
limiting how many pids they can have,
pids being like how many unique processes
that can be running at a time,
it's what that means.
So let's be overly restrictive,
you would never do this,
but let's just give it three that I
currently have three processes at a time.
And I'm gonna run sys, or we can just
do that from here into pids.max.
>> Brian Holt: And so now, it cannot run
any more than three processes at a time,
so let's just do like a really
dumb example of that.
I'm gonna grab this one right here,
it's gonna try and run five processes.
>> Brian Holt: And you can see there,
it's gonna say a resource temporarily
unavailable, that's because it's like,
hey, I have three processes,
I can't do that.
And it's gonna keep trying until
eventually these 15 seconds are done, and
then it'll do it again,
eventually it completes.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see there
that the sleep fifteens are now done, so
it can only run three processes at a time
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna do this because I'm an idiot,
so I'm actually gonna drop the fork
bomb in there, you can try if you want to,
but don't say I didn't warn you.
So, I'm gonna grab this inside of
my change rooted environment and
I'm gonna paste that, and
it's gonna just really try and hammer.
It, but eventually it's going to run
out of pathways, and it'll stop,
pretty cool, right?
This is like a real thing that someone
could do to your server, but, but
using cgroups and that kind of stuff,
you're able to kind of prevent that,
you would never be able to
prevent it like this, right?
Where it actually would just crash out,
but you would basically say, look,
you're paying for the server,
you can do whatever you want, right?
You wanna drop a fork bomb on your
paid for server, by all means, but
you're not going to bring
down other people with it.
That's kind of it for our like crafting
containers by hand, so this is it, right?
Change root, namespaces, cgroups,
that's a container, there's nothing
else everything else that Docker does for
you is like stuff around containers,
like networking and volumes and
bind mounts and all that kind of stuff.
Those relate to containers,
but a container in and
of itself is just change root,
namespaces, cgroups.
You now totally understand
what goes into a container,
which I think is pretty cool, right?
It's really is just three Linux
features that they duct tape together.